Wine soaked through Jod's boots and wrinkled his feet. Its sweetness perfumed the thickened the air inside the barrel, churning his stomach. The hellish chorus of screams quieted to low wails, becoming almost indiscernible as time went on. Mushy, heavy thuds landed on Jod's ear rhythmically, and sometimes whimpers followed.

Nothing but the sound of his heart galloping in his ears could be heard for an agonizing number of minutes. The panic which had seized his chest loosened its grip, but its hand still tightly clenched his torso. A game Zaralahar children played called "Zymt," or "Winter," came to mind. Zaralahar children would choose from amongst themselves someone to be "Winter," and it was the selected child's job to find children walking or hiding instead of staying in a designated safe area, called "Zonskaja". The children found by Winter stayed still as the game went on. At the end of the game, if there were more children found by Winter than there were in the safe area, Winter won.

It was a game with a tragic history. 

Not too far in the past, a large portion of the Araźna tribe thought they could survive Zara's winter instead of staying in Zonskaja. Some left because of their greed and others left because they worried they weren't going to have enough supplies to last until they began to trade again. Surviving winter is difficult on its own, but making sure supplies will last until late spring required disciplined minds and appetites tempered by self-control. Unfortunately, desperation lights a fire in the minds of people that cannot be smothered, and it consumes the entire forest of their rationality, and that's what happened to these people.

That winter was particularly brutal. The air was so cold occasionally, that things would freeze during the day. When the first Zaralahar tribe left Zonskaja the following spring to begin the trading season, what was left of the Araźnalahar was quite grisly. Parents covered the eyes of their children to protect their innocence. The Araźnalahar hadn't traversed two day's length from Zonskaja and children had gone with them. Zara was deadly during the summer, oftentimes forcing the Zaralahar to summer in Zonskaja as well as to winter there, but not nearly as deadly as the winter. Nothing survives Zara in the winter.

Jod's current circumstances reminded him of this game because he was always told to stay in "Zonskaja" by his brother. Peźvik would try to sneak home undetected to retrieve treats to snack on while they played the game. He would wait patiently until Peźvik came back.

This felt eerily similar to the uneasiness he felt as a child.

And just like when he was a child, the longer he waited, the more disheartened he became. He heard scuffling in the streets and muffled shouts from the Empire's soldiers. Intermixed were grunts and groaning, and the sound of flesh smacking against other flesh. Jod listened carefully, trying to ascertain what was occurring outside of the inn. After an unbearably long silence, he heard clearly, "Burn the bodies on my command!"

His thoughts quickly dissipated from his mind as panic seized his chest tighter and squeezed so hard, he could barely breathe. He heard two shouts and then a much louder yell, and then he could hear the deafening roar of a fire being lit from within the barrel. He heard more shouting and horses whinnying in the street. 

A lump formed in his throat. Quiet muttering came from inside the inn. Wood groaned and wine splashed onto the stone floor of the storeroom. He heard steps splashing in the wine, and then silence. He closed his eyes, bracing himself for the worst when he heard a familiar voice breathe, "Jod?"

His eyes sprung open. He pressed his cheek to the false door and said in a hushed tone. "Kisa, is it truly you?"

"Yes. The wife of your brother told me where you would be. We must get you out!"

He unlocked the door of the fake bottom. Jod could make out Kisa's silhouette in the dim light. The euphoria he felt now was the same as when he would finally spot Peźvik carrying an armful of snacks to Zonskaja.

Kisa grabbed his hand and yanked him out of the hiding spot. He walked with her, but once they had exited the barrel, he stopped and dropped her hand.

"Kisa, how can I be sure you aren't assisting the Empire?"

She looked at him wearily and he saw exasperation in her eyes. "How would the location of your hiding spot be known by me unless your family had told me? Stop swimming in these thoughts and come with me if you want to live."

He reasoned he wouldn't be better off on his own, and if she was telling the truth, he would be led to safety. He nodded. "Thank you. I need help finding something and you can help me. Its location was said by the wife of your brother."

"What?" He asked.

"I need to find a rug," she hissed under her breath. "Stop wasting time with your questions and ‘What?'-s. Do what I say. There is a rug special to your tribe, and it is covering a secret door. This door can be used to leave the city secretly. Do you know where this rug this could be?"

Jod pointed to a wooden crate of onions behind Kisa. "It's under those."

Kisa spun around to see what he was pointing to, then said, "This crate is like the barrel you were hiding in. Peźvik made it so the entrance could look the same as it did before it was opened." She pulled on a tassel and pressed the tops of two onion bulbs at the same time. A trap door released and Kisa swung it open. Jod peered over the edge into the hole. It was pitch black.

"Go on! We don't have any time to lose!" She whispered urgently.

Kisa stepped aside, allowing Jod to descend into the hole. Jod took a few steps forward and looked down into its throat. It looked like a decent fall from where they were to the stonework below. He climbed down and then Kisa did the same. About three rungs from the bottom, Kisa motioned for him to stop and to be quiet. She closed the trapdoor, but even with it being secured and sealed, they could distinctly make out three voice, and then three pairs of feet above them, Jod could tell two of them were  heavy and one of them light.

"What was that noise? It sounded like something locked," a male voice said.

"Shhh! It was the door I was telling you about," the female said. "He probably thinks it's safe to escape now. It must be where he is hidden. He hasn't left the inn. I know it to be true."

Jod bit his tongue hard to keep himself from exclaiming. The female voice they heard speaking above them belonged to the girl who worked for Peźvik. He bit harder and tasted blood in his mouth. His ribcage felt like a drum and his heart was pounding a vicious rhythm against it.

A deeper male voice joined in. "If this is false, your fate will be worse than it would have been had you kept your mouth shut."

The girl spoke again in a higher, panicky voice, "Okay, yes, it's this one. This one right here."

Kisa silently stepped off the last rung onto the a large cobblestone and waited next to Jod. With bated breath, they listened as the soldiers opened the door to the barrel. They heard another door open, and then slam shut. Footsteps marched quickly, and then they heard a shriek. The shriek was drowned out by the sound of liquid gurgling, and then a soft thump.

"Never trust the words from a bar wench's mouth. They're as useless as shoes for a legless man."

They both laughed, then the deeper voice spoke. "We need to search this inn, top to bottom. You look upstairs and I will stay down here." 

The sound of their feet walking away prompted Kisa to grab Jod's hand. The only thing he noticed as she pulled him through the tunnel was that it began to slant downwards, deeper into the earth. As they ran, the stonework began to have a dusting of dirt and sand on top of it. The blackness caused him to stumble quite a bit, forcing them to stop, frustrating Kisa. Jod felt like he was drowning with each breath he took of the wet, hot air.

After traveling in the tunnel for a long time, Jod had had enough. He threw Kisa's hand and he could have sworn he could see the irritation on Kisa's face.

"What do you need now? We must hurry," Kisa emphatically said.

"I need answers. I don't understand what just happened. I don't understand how you knew about my brother's secret activities and I didn't. I don't know where you're taking me. I'd wager everything in my chests no one knows about this tunnel. Stopping for moment so you can explain to me what is going on is not a problem at all. Explain." 

He sat down. She exhaled, and then sat down too.

"After you went to go sleep, I continued to sit at the bar. Everyone else left for their beds, but I have much to think about, so, I sat to think. The wife of your brother sat too, and we talked about nothing of consequence. Then Peźvik finished what he was doing and came to talk with his wife. He was surprised to see I hadn't gone to sleep yet and all of us began to talk. The hurt man who had come into the inn and left just as fast became the subject of conversation. One thing led to another and I began to share the things I know about the Empire."

She started to say something but hesitated. Then she spoke again. "I have seen things done by the Empire, and those were some of the things–" She paused. "Those were some of the things I talked about with your brother and the wife of your brother. I do not want to live where people willingly submit to the Empire because of the things I have seen. I'm traveling as far away as I can to escape it."

Jod's head started pounding. Additionally, there was a sound similar to the ringing of a bell in his ears that he couldn't help but notice. "So far, your story has nothing to do with knowing why there is a trapdoor in my brother's inn. Why did they feel comfortable telling you about its existence? I didn't even know about it and I'm their family!"
Kisa hesitated again. "Some of the things said amongst the three of us made the brother of this man and his wife trust me."

Jod scoffed. "Here is a woman unknown to me, my brother, and his wife, and they trust you enough because of a few stories to tell you about a part of my brother's illegal activities? Unlikely."

"The stories were good." Kisa mumbled.

"Yeah, they must have been quite good," Jod said sarcastically. "What happened next?"

"We continued talking and the night grew long. I was just about to go to my room, and then I heard shouting in your language. It was a word. I suppose it is a word of warning for your people.

"Your brother and his wife spoke quickly in your native tongue, and then Peźvik went for you, and his wife went for their daughter. Her name is Lovika, right? And their daughter is Alika?"

"Yes, that's right," Jod confirmed.

"Lovika advised me to join them. I said I would not be in danger since I am a citizen of the Empire. The soldiers wouldn't dare hurt me, but Lovika said I had no choice. She wanted to help."

/That does sound like Lovika./ "Continue."

"So, I went. Lovika, Alika, and I all went to the room with all the inn's food and the drink, but something happened outside the inn, so I asked to be informed how to find the door again and let them go first. They told me where the hidden door was and where to find you, since that would be where Peźvik would hide you. Now you know how I found you and how I knew about the secret door."

"Where did you go so they could leave?"

"The room I paid for on the first floor. Soldiers barged in, I showed them my papers, and they left me alone."

"So if they found you there once, and they don't find you again, and they don't find me, won't the soldiers know I'm with you?"

She cleared her throat. "Do you understand now why you can trust me?"

Jod felt hot in his face. "I wasn't thinking. So much has just happened–" His voice trailed off. He sat there and didn't move, his eyes wide open.

"The things the Empire does are not good, Jod. I know. I've seen it many times in my life. The feelings I want are comfort and happiness. I know these feelings are not in you nor me right now, which is why we must go. To get out of the city and to get away from the Empire, even if the waters for you and this woman flow differently. For now, they flow together, and they must be swum quickly. So, let's go at once."

Her last sentence was a command, but the softness in her voice and a slight rising tone made it almost seem like a question, as if she was asking him if he was ready to leave now. He stood up and reached out for her hand. He grabbed her forearm and she squeezed his hand. She pulled him again but didn't walk nearly as fast as she first did. He had no idea how long they had walked together. The darkness was almost palpable, the kind of darkness which Jod felt the need to hold up his hand to keep from walking into it.

"About how much further must we travel? Zaralahar enjoy the light from a fire, a full moon, the sun in the sky; I don't enjoy being in the dark where I can't see where I'm going."

Kisa laughed, which annoyed Jod greatly, since he didn't think it was a laughing matter. "I forget some people cannot see as clearly in the dark as me. This journey is ending soon, and then you can feel the sun's heat on your face once more." Almost immediately after she finished speaking, Kisa stopped abruptly, causing Jod to nearly walk into her.

"Kisa!" He exclaimed in surprise.

"Sorry, but as I said, I can–"

"See well in the dark, yes. Clearly, we are at the end or about to change directions, one of the two."

"Well, yes, this is true…" Kisa said haltingly.

"Then what's the problem?"

"There is a direction with the hand I lead you with and there is a direction with the hand I don't, and I forgot the right way to go."

"Did Lovika tell you?" Jod asked.

"Yes, she did, but I remember both go away from the city."

"Are they the same distance?"

"Yes," Kisa said.

"Then what does it matter? Choose a direction so we can escape with our lives."

"Do you want to return home?"

"Of course, I do!" Jod snapped. "But first, I want to see if there will be any survivors!"

"There will not be," Kisa said quite matter-of-factly.

"There was one before. How can you know there won't be a second time?" Jod protested.

"Because it was a mistake. Once the soldiers in the inn recognized the man, they would have instantly known your tribe was possibly alerted to the threat. Could you not feel the heat from where you were hiding? They were burning corpses outside of your brother's inn! Why do you think they did that? It was to ensure there would be no survivors to warn any other Zaralahar."

Jod was silent. "Anything is possible," he muttered.

"Yes, but not everything." Kisa sighed. "There is a strong tide in my body to help you, even though it's foolish."

There was a long silence between the two of them. The events from the night before demanded to be remembered, but he ignored them. Yet he couldn't rid himself of his anxiety, which was starting to tighten its grip around his chest once more. 

Finally, Kisa broke the silence, speaking solemnly. "We will wait a little while, and then we will go back. But if we get caught together, the soldiers will arrest me and kill you. You do understand the weight of this, correct?"

"I understand."

She let out a breath. "Any idea to figure out which way to go?"

"Not yet," Jod bit his lip. He noticed there was a ringing in his ears, and he thought he could faintly hear the screams of people being murdered by the Empire's soldiers. Despite his best intentions, the ringing in his ears and the echoes of the screams he thought he heard, prevented him from thinking without distractions. He thought perhaps this was a terrible dream and he was going to wake up to Peźvik shaking him violently or waking up in the bed he frequented at Ir Peźvik's, smelling aromas reminding him of home. At the thought of being home, something popped into his head.

Jod blinked away a few tears that began to well up in his eyes. "Peźvik would have built one tunnel in the direction of his true home. My home, our home: Ir Zonska, or Zonskaja, as it's known in Plainspeak."

"Which is where?" Kisa asked.

Jod smiled as a few tears spilled onto his cheeks. "If I'm correct, then right is southwest, and left is south."

"And these lead where?"

"Southwest is towards Alina's Pass. South is towards Aźaźir."

"Then we must go right."

The two immediately set off walking in the direction Jod suggested. As time went on, he noticed the ground started to slope upwards and the ground started to feel looser. The heat now was almost unbearable as it baked his skin, and water began to thicken the air within a few hundred paces from where the tunnel began its ascent. A smile crept across his face. Jod closed his eyes and breathed deeply. 

"Kisa, we're getting close," he said. He breathed deeply once again, then opened his eyes as they kept walking. Jod could see the sunlight's glow illuminate the dust, dirt, and sand in the tunnel.

***

They ran, clamoring for the exit. When they came upon the source of the light, Jod and Kisa doubled over, gasping for breath and sweating profusely. Once Jod could breathe steadily again, he raised his head and saw the opening was big enough for only one person to squeeze through at a time. The height and width of the tunnel had changed so that to leave, they had to crawl on their bellies. Jod let Kisa through first, and then he wriggled out into the unknown. Despite his eyes being squeezed shut, it was almost white in front of his eyes. He knelt after exiting the tunnel, spread open his arms, and laughed while hot tears fell down his face. To feel the sun's light and warmth caress his face felt more refreshing and invigorating than relaxing in one of the steam baths back home.

After letting the treasured moment saturate his mind, he opened his eyes and looked for the entrance to the tunnel. Peži, you clever fox. The tunnel's exit was hidden in plain sight. It appeared like a piece of rock jutted out from the ground with the rock's shadow covering the entrance. This was a very common sight in the Raźna Plains and was certainly one of the better ideas of Peźvik.

Jod looked around and noticed there were also no signs of any other footprints besides those that belonged to him and Kisa. Thoughts of his family galloped frantically like wild horses across the plains of his mind. He glanced up at Kisa and saw she was staring at him. Jod felt his cheeks flush.

"So now…?" Kisa said.

"Now," he said as he stood to his feet, brushing the dirt off his knees. "We wait here for nightfall before we return to see if there are any survivors."

"Jod, it is not a good idea to do that."

"But you agreed to go back with me!"

"And the current in my heart still flows in that direction."

"Then let's return."

Kisa smacked the top of her head with her hands twice. "That is not what I meant. How can you not see how foolish this idea of yours is? Soldiers are definitely waiting to see if any Zaralahar survived, especially since one did before and was seen entering your brother's inn." She hesitated before continuing, "It is my desire to go back with you, but for our safety, I must protest once more."

Jod shook his head. "Kisa, I must go to see if the Emperor is trying to make an end of my people. If he is, then I can reasonably assume the Araźna have been attacked as well."

"Araźna?" She blinked in confusion. "What is this word? Are these a different kind of Zaralahar?"

"Not a different kind, just a different tribe. There are three tribes in total: the Raźnalahar, the Araźnalahar, and the Zonlahar. Never mind the meaning and the differences, and why there are three tribes in the first place. It doesn't matter. What does matter is that the man who came into the inn was Zon. His tribe would have reached Zonskaja first. If the Zon were attacked first and the Raźnalahar second, then the Araźna were certainly attacked too."

"This water is clear, yes. What you're saying is logical."

"I need to make sure. If nothing else, we need to return for supplies."

"It burned to the ground!" She exclaimed with her hands stretched towards Jod. "Surely you heard the commands to set everything on fire. You must have. I heard them from my room!"

"No," he replied thoughtfully. "They wouldn't have done that. Maybe elsewhere in the Raźna Plains or even the Empire, but not Bludthadok."

"No? Are you an expert military strategist now? What do you know of the Empire and the cruelty of its sovereign?"

"I'm not some military strategist, but it is the largest and most profitable city closest to Zonskaja. There are things made in and exported from Bludthadok. The Emperor needs to have a city that can be fortified near Zonskaja. Bludthadok is the best candidate. Instead, more likely, they would have just destroyed things that were Zaralahar and left everything and everyone else alone."

"Kisa," Jod stepped closer to her, "I understand you don't want to go back. Neither do I. I'm scared. I don't want to die."

Kisa laughed a little while she massaged her left shoulder. "Well, at least you haven't gone completely mad."

"Not yet, at least." Jod felt a tingling in his body and his bottom eyelids sagged. "I know that we have just left the tunnel, but we must go back in there while we wait until night has fallen." Jod pointed up. He saw beads of sweat on his fingers and his dampened clothes stuck to his body like honeyed fingers. "The sun. In this part of the plains, it's not the dangerous animals or the harsh terrain, or the inconsistent availability of edible food that will kill you. It's the sun. When's the last time you drank anything? Any water, or maybe even eaten something?"

Kisa closed her eyes. "Anything I last consumed would have been at your brother's inn."

"Then we are in the same predicament. You and I are at risk for dehydration. It will cause us to get weaker. We won't be able to think properly, and if we were to be attacked, we won't be able to defend ourselves."

"Speak for yourself, Zaralahar," Kisa said defensively. "I am a woman. I am never unarmed for reasons it wouldn't be difficult for you to guess."

"Of course," Jod bowed his head. "Kisa, when do you think that the Zaralahar would travel, hmm? At night or during the day?"

"Well, this thought has never swum in my pond. I will stab at the fish and say you and your people would travel in the evening, at night, and early in the morning."

"You are correct, it is always when the temperatures are the least severe. We take shelter in our tents and wagons and guards take appropriate watches during the day. We would start traveling around sundown and make camp in the morning. The sun is your biggest enemy. There is a word for it in Zaranazyk, it's called ‘tyvonadik'. In Plainspeak, it's called ‘heatstroke'."

"I have heard this word, yes."

"And that is why we need to go back in the tunnel."

"To stay cool," Kisa said in understanding. Kisa crawled below the rock and disappeared into the tunnel. Jod got on his belly and squirmed into the tunnel after her. He could now feel the difference in temperature between being in the tunnel and outside it, beneath the angry stare of the sun.

His breathing was quite ragged. Hunger scraped its claws at the bottom of his belly and his lips were caking together. In a fugue state, the experience of hiding in his brother's inn became reality once more. The ringing became louder and louder, and became screams, echoing in his ears. Jod tried to control his breathing and clasped his hands over his ears. He felt a pair of delicate hands heave him onto his right side, and slowly, he began to remember where he was and the identity of the person who filled his vision.

"This is what I meant earlier, Jod," Kisa said softly. "Those are the kinds of stories I told Peźvik and Lovika."

Jod blinked several times, searching for Kisa's face. Eventually he found it, and he met her sad gaze.

"These are the things that I am escaping. The Emperor will stop at nothing to eat his fill of money and power. He doesn't care who dies along the way."

"Can no one stop him?"

"Some have tried, yes, but their attempts were not good enough."

Jod thought of his family. He tried to push the screams out of his head. "You know," he said as he propped himself up against the wall of the tunnel. "I haven't seen any indication that people went through the tunnel or left it."

A puzzled look appeared on Kisa's face. "I don't understand what you mean."

"I mean I haven't seen any evidence that my family left the city alive."

Kisa's head sank to her chest. "I didn't either."

Jod slowly turned his head left and right, but still didn't see anything that would have indicated that someone besides them had walked through. "I will continue to hope nothing happened to them." Jod leaned his head against the wall of the tunnel and felt the sweat from his hair make the dirt moist. Kisa drew her knees against her chest and tucked her chin in one of her elbows. It sounded as if she was singing to herself under her breath, but Jod couldn't make out what she was saying.

"Did you say something to me?" He asked.

Kisa's eyes were still closed when she answered him. "No, I didn't," she said. "I was singing."

"What are the words you're singing? I can't understand it."

She smiled. "Of course not. It's not Plainspeak. It's a tongue called ‘Garasenek.' Have you ever heard of it?"

Jod tried to say the word back to her. He wasn't sure how to make the choking sound she made at the beginning of the word, but he tried his best. He vaguely remembered his brother speaking about the Garasek and heard the word when he walked under the sun but didn't remember much about it.

"Not quite, but it's like that, yes. It's the language of the people of my mother."

"The way you speak is different from what I'm accustomed to hearing."

"It sounds so different because of the gulping sounds, but the different sounds are the least of your worries. The grammar is much more difficult than Plainspeak."

Jod fell silent and Kisa started singing again, a little more loudly than before but still softly. Jod started to yawn. It had been a long and terrifying night and they both had been pushed to their limits.

"Kisa, we might as well sleep until the evening comes."

She yawned, causing the yawn in his mouth to finally open his jaws. "That sounds like a good idea," she said sleepily. "I didn't sleep much today."

"Neither did I." Jod looked at her face again. Her eyes were still closed, and the smile had all but disappeared. "Kisa, would you mind singing loud enough for me to hear to hear the words? It's making me sleepy and the melody sounds nice to my ears."

She nodded slowly. Fatigue was overcoming them quickly, Jod realized. She began to sing, quieter than if she were speaking, but not the whisper it was before. He couldn't understand a word she was saying, but the tune and the way the words sounded put the image of water lapping against the shores of the ocean in his head. When the Zaralahar went back to Zonskaja for the winter, the ocean was close enough to the city that the children of all the tribes could play on the beaches during the day. Jod frequently walked along the shore during the winter. He loved the water, despite almost drowning as a child, and the image in Jod's head from the song placed him right on the ocean's beaches, lulling him to sleep.

***

Unpleasant dreams forced Jod awake. He jolted upright from lying on his left side on the dirt and felt a pain below his skin where he had been lying. He looked to the left and saw Kisa's figure lying still, except for her trunk expanding and shrinking with every breath she took. Jod rolled onto his stuck and crawled out of the tunnel's opening. The light was not as bright as it was before he had fallen asleep. Although he could not see the sun, Jod reasoned it was getting close to sundown, if the sun had not sunk beneath the horizon already. He looked out from below the rock that hid the entrance to the tunnel and saw streaks of red, orange, and purple in the sky.

His skin was starting to flake off his palms and it seemed that his mouth was stuck together. He was not completely unfamiliar with traveling without supplies, but he hated it, no matter what he was without. Even the most well-equipped and seasoned traveler could still die. Jod was not in a hurry to find out how such a thing was possible.

Jod wriggled, turning himself around, and squirmed back to where he woke up. He was unsure how he could appropriately awaken Kisa. Jod stood up, although very hunched over. He shifted his weight from his right foot to the left, deciding if he should chance reaching down and shaking her shoulder. Instead, he ultimately decided to push her onto her back from being on her side with his foot and hoped the sensation of falling would be enough to wake her up. He balanced on one leg with his arms crossed and pushed her thigh with his foot. Her eyes immediately opened and faster than Jod could comprehend, there was a knife in her hand pointed in the air towards him. He took a step back and lifted up his hands. She winked a couple times in groggy confusion, then tucked the hand behind her.

"You seriously thought that was a good idea, Jod?"

He shrugged with one shoulder. "Trying to rouse you awake with just my words might not have been enough."

"Trying to rouse me with physicality might have killed you."

The words of her sentence frightened Jod. "I won't make the same mistake twice."

"Some mistakes a man can only make once." Kisa hoisted herself upon her elbows. "Is it nighttime?"

Jod shook his head. "Not quite, but we need to move anyway. The less time we waste, the better."

"Am I correct in assuming we will travel back through the tunnel?"

"You are, but first, I need to find some water for us. There is no guarantee that there will be any waiting for us at the inn if we make it."

"If," Kisa repeated. She stood up and stretched. Jod didn't notice before that she could hardly stand straight in the tunnel. She put her hands on her hips and pushed forward, and then swung her head around her neck. Jod couldn't fathom why she did these things, but they were not unpleasant to watch, albeit strange. In fact, her posture seemed more relaxed once she was finished.

"‘If' is such big word, it is not?" Kisa said flatly.

"Yes, extremely."

"You can find water, hmm?"

Jod nodded.

"Then I will wait for you here. There isn't much point for me to waste energy trying to do something I cannot."

"Stay here. Sing the song twice. If I don't come back, just leave."

"It wouldn't take so long?"

"No, and if I don't come back, I was either killed, so you should go, or it means I'm too dumb to find my way back from where I came, and you should just let me die." They both laughed at his joke.

"I will wait for you."

Jod grunted as he took his turn to stretch his arms. "Thank you. I won't be long."
He made his way out of the smuggler's tunnel and felt bumps rise on his skin as a cold gust of wind snaked its way over the nape of his neck. He could see the sun was setting and the sky was clothed in blue and purple. His gaze quickly darted around the terrain for shrubs that grew close to the ground, or a cactus from which he could harvest some dyansk fruit. It was luscious and had enough water inside its flesh to stave off mild dehydration. He found a few clusters of pale green fruit growing about a stone's throw away. He jogged over to the cactus pads and grabbed four dyansk fruits, then quickly walked back to the entrance of the tunnel and rolled the fruit inside. After he rolled inside, he stood up and saw Kisa standing, leaning against the wall of the tunnel.

"You're in luck. I was just about to leave."

He smiled. "Here, eat these."

Kisa bent over to pick the fruit off the ground. "Are you sure these are safe to eat? The flesh and all?"

"Yes, everything except the seeds inside. They're safe too, just not palatable."

"Not what?"

"They don't taste good."

She nodded once in understanding and took a bite of the fruit. Kisa chewed thoughtfully. "It's sweeter than I anticipated," she said with surprise coloring her voice.

Jod gave a sharp nod. "The drier the rainy season, the sweeter they are. They greedily hold onto the rain." He too bit into the fruit and immediately, the sweetness of its flesh was on his tongue. A little bit of the fruit's juice dribbled down his chin, but he was too hungry and too thirsty to care about wiping it off. Jod chewed a few times and swallowed the fruit, then took another bite.

Kisa swallowed her second bite, then met Jod's gaze. "Are you able to walk and eat at the same time?"

"Of course."

Kisa sank her teeth into the fruit again, speaking around the food in her mouth. "Then we must go."

They walked away from the tunnel's exit, back towards Bludthadok. As before, as the light began to disappear into the shadow of the tunnel, Kisa grabbed Jod's hand to keep them moving as quickly as possible. A random thought popped into Jod's head that he chided himself for not thinking until they started backtracking in the tunnel. "Kisa, how will we get back inside the inn? Isn't it secured with those onions and tassels?"

"Jod, if Peźvik was smuggling, do you think he wouldn't have a way to let himself back up?"

He could feel the heat of embarrassment warm his cheeks. "Of course, you're right." Jod felt himself smile ever so slightly. It wasn't often that a woman exuded the confidence that Kisa had. He enjoyed being around people who were more worldly.

"Kisa, if I may ask you another question?"

"Go ahead."

"Where are you from? My curiosity is how you traveled so far…" He stopped speaking when he realized what he was about to say could offend her.

"So far what? Alone? As a woman?" She said with a bit of playfulness in her voice.

"Well, yes, both of those."

They continued to walk quickly in silence for a few moments. Jod wasn't sure if she would even answer him. Then she said, "I am from the Empire. It seems we learn more in school than the rest of the world. I can tell that the Zaralahar don't know much beyond the Zara Desert and some of the Plains, so you will have to imagine what I'm about to tell you.

"You can think of the known world as a rectangle. The southwestern point is where the Zaralahar live. No one knows how to get to this, but it can be guessed this is the place, since they obviously don't live anywhere else. On the northwestern point is where my mother's family is from, Héllèbegarasek.

"And then in the northeastern part of the world is the capital of the empire. It has a proper name, but it doesn't matter. The language is dead. No one can speak it anymore. Everyone calls it ‘The Capital' for this reason and everyone knows what you mean when you say this. No other city is called that besides this place, so there is no muddy water in people's heads.

"My father's family doesn't come from the Capital but near there, a little bit more left, closer to the center. That's where his people are from. These people are very loyal to the Empire. They don't see what's wrong with the Emperor. Or perhaps, even worse, they choose not to. To them, life must be this way and don't question if it's right or wrong. Since they depend so much on the Empire and since there isn't so much violence in their cities, they submit to him. They would never dare say ‘no' to him or his authority."
"Is that why you left the Empire?" Jod asked.

"One of the reasons, yes," Kisa replied. "It is easy to be a dumb woman and to live in the Empire, especially close to the Capital. But in general, I didn't enjoy living there. What life is like for people under his rule is awful. What life is like for women who can use their head is an even bigger reason why I left. My father is another."

"You don't get along?"

Kisa laughed abruptly. "Not at all. My father and I, we are like oil and water. We will never mix. But to answer your question, because of my citizenships, I'm able to travel almost wherever I want. I also learned at a young age how to protect myself, so I don't worry much about my physical safety." She slowed down, and Jod slowed down as well. "We are almost at the 'two-ways' again."

They kept walking at the speed they were, then Kisa suddenly headed left, which was north, towards Bludthadok. Jod followed her lead, keeping close as they walked together. The darkness of the tunnel had returned as they made their way through it and once again he had to fight the sensation of sticking his hand out to prevent himself from walking into something.

"These are the biggest reasons why I left the Empire. It will never be home for me," she continued.

"So you decided to head south? Why didn't you live in the city of your mother?"

"I did for many years, that's why my speech is not so good. I am constantly thinking in the wrong language all the time when I'm talking in Plainspeak."

"You speak Plainspeak and Garasenek. Are there many other languages in the world? I only know of Garasenek, Slethen, and Plainspeak, of course."

"I do not only speak those two tongues. But to answer your question, yes, naturally." she said. "Well, there aren't so many living ones. There are some that aren't spoken because they were not written down or because it is unnecessary for people to speak them. There is Plainspeak, which we are speaking now, and there is Zaranazyk, which is what you speak."
"There are those two which are spoken in the southern part of the world. Plainspeak is spoken almost everywhere, but mostly in the plains. There are some languages that learned ones haven't been able to describe what exactly they are, but they seem to be a combination of Selthen and Zaranzyk, and they aren't understandable in other towns. Daun speaks one kind of this, and Vzdrut speaks another, for example.

There is also Garasenek. Garasenek is tricky to describe because all the people who speak it think they are speaking true Garasenek. The truth is that pure Garasenek is spoken in Garasena, and the other dialects of Garasenek is spoken in the Plains. We call it 'Garasyn' but to them, they're speaking pure Garasenek and we're speaking Old Garasenek. Then to the far north, a language is spoken called Selthen."
"This is all completely new to me. I've never heard of such things in my life."
Jod could hear the shrug in Kisa's voice. "You wouldn't have had a chance or a reason to. The people who wag these tongues don't travel to this part of the world, simply because they don't need to.

"Anyway, the Empire conquered the people who spoke Selthen long ago, before our grandparent's grandparents were born. They were fast to accept the sovereignty of the Empire.

"There is a kind of Selthen near The Capital that is called ‘Noble' Selthen. There is also a kind of Selthen spoken in the far northeast called ‘High' Selthen. There were other languages that had been spoken in this part of the world for centuries, but again, nobody speaks them now and nobody wrote them down back then, so they died and no longer exist. There is an ancestor of both Noble and High Selthen that we call ‘Old Selthen.' We know almost nothing about it, only that it is related to modern Selthen and the meaning of a few words and phrases. We don't know where these people went or what happened to them, but sometimes, you can find words in Old Selthen. There is a statue in Bludthadok for example, that has a plaque with words inscribed in Old Selthen, Plainspeak, and Zaranazyk. You know which statue I mean?"

Jod knew exactly which statue Kisa was speaking about. In the city center of Bludthadok was a statue of a woman named Alina who existed long ago, known for establishing peace in the Raźna Plains. The history of aonlahar, or "foreigners," as they were referred to by the Zaralahar, was by and large unknown to the Zaralahar. Alina, however, was known because she was one of the few aonlahar who successfully traveled to Zonskaja and lived, as well as one of the only aonlahar the Zaralahar befriended. The Zaralahar hesitantly let her into the city after a guard patrolling the city entrance found her half-dead in the sand. After the people of Ir Zonskaja learned who she was and what she endeavored to do, they did everything they could to ensure her recovery.
"Yes," Jod said. "It's the statue of Alina."

"That's the name of this woman, yes. All that is written is her name, when she was born and when she died, and when she freed the city."

"No," Jod replied. "That's all that is written in Plainspeak."

Kisa gasped in surprise. "I didn't know there was more."

Jod was silent for a moment, and then said, "A strange thing, the history of the Raźna Plains and what Alina did for the Plainsfolk, as well as the Zaralahar. The Zaralahar have walked under the sun since time began, according to our history, and we have always kept to our own traditions and people. The people we traded with were unnaturally violent. Not only were they violent to each other, raiding each other's cities, taking slaves, and taking their men's women and children, but they were violent to us as well for walking under the sun and being of darker skin. They worshiped deities who came from man's own imagination and abandoned the moral and legal codes each city had created over time since each one had been founded. During this time, to be Zaralahar was especially difficult. Making a fair trade in one city was rare. Making a fair trade during the entire summer was impossible. It never happened once and the Zaralahar people were always met with violence. Many women were humiliated, many men were killed, and many children were stolen from their families under the cover of night. Most Zaralahar didn't make enough money and went hungry. A few starved to death completely. Several families from each of the three tribes didn't walk under the sun to protect themselves, risking starvation at home rather than the dangers of trading.

"The Zaralahar are a peaceful people, saving violence only for the hunting of animals and defending themselves against bands of marauders, but in the city of Aźaźir, one of the women who had been preserving her purity for religious reasons was humiliated by dozens of the men in the city center. Worse still, it was in the middle of the day, seen by the people of Aźaźir as well as the people of that tribe. The Zaralahar never go back on the sun after we return to Zonskaja for the winter, but that was one of the few times in our history we did. Each of the tribes armed their men and went back to the city of Aźaźir. They killed the men who had violated the purity of the woman and chopped off their male members, shoving each man's phallus into his own throat as a message to the people before they returned to Zonskaja. It started a conflict between the cities across the Plains and the Zaralahar, adding more bloodshed to a war which was already underway between the Capital and the cities of the Raźna Plains. The fighting seemed without end and the future seemed bleak. Then one fateful day, Alina was found almost dead outside Zonskaja.

"She was a brave, courageous, and strong woman with aspirations for the world, the likes of which had never existed. She wanted to resolve territorial disputes and conflicts, and end slavery. She dreamed of establishing fair trade between all people and encouraged the creation of a language understood by everyone in the world. It was the kind of idealism and the kind of virtues that every Zaralahar would die for and many did. The Raźna Plains became known for the blood spilled across its lands and was appropriately named; ‘Raźna' in Zaranazyk means red."

"The words in Zaranazyk," Jod explained, "are different because the statue was made by the Zaralahar. The people of Bludthadok as well as the other cities in the Plains met together in the city center and made peace. They decided to erect the statue in the City of Blood as a dedication to Alina and the peace created because of her. They honored her in their own tongues and so did we."

"What does it say?"

"We honored her name, wrote the date she was born, and the date when she liberated the plains. It was on the plaque she was officially named friend of the Zaralahar. Below all that, written in Zaranazyk, is inscribed: ‘Blood ceased to water the plains when hers quenched the thirst of men. Then there was peace.' But in Plainspeak, it isn't as emotional. My language has a way of describing things that ordinarily can't be lost. Plainspeak says 'My mother', but we say something that means 'My mother, who is impossible to lose.' The 'hers' here is that same meaning. Her impossible-to-lose blood was lost, something that is impossible to lose was brutally taken from her."

They were both silent while their feet marched on. Jod noticed that after he said those words, Kisa had ceased walking as quickly as she was before he quoted the plaque in Plainspeak to her. The lack of words between them made the darkness even blacker and more palpable than when they first trudged through, until Kisa quietly said, almost as quiet as a breath leaving her lungs, "She was an amazing woman."

"She was. And what's even more ironic is that this Empire that has been dung in the nose of the people of the world was made so dynastic through her. After the war, she married the then-current emperor, and killed him after delivering his child. Her son was the first in a line of rulers leading to the tyrant who rules today."

"This, I knew. Fate has a dark sense of laughter, does she not?"
"Yes, she does indeed."

The ground that their feet traveled had stayed level for some time after they had taken the left they needed to so they could return to Bludthadok. Jod was eagerly waiting for the ground to slope upwards again; he remembered that the tunnel had sloped downwards when they had started walking away from the ladder.

They picked up their pace again. Despite walking quickly, the droplets of sweat that had fallen down the small of Jod's back when they first walked through the tunnel were absent this trek. The temperature of the tunnel was still warm, but it was significantly cooler than it had been earlier, and drastically cooler than when they first escaped. 

The upward slope that Jod had longed for arrived at long last. An unidentifiable stench permeated the tunnel that was not there before. Kisa squeezed his hand twice. "We are getting close," she whispered. He squeezed her hand back in acknowledgment and they pressed on. Kisa slowed again, almost stopping.

"I can see the ladder from here," she said. Jod hadn't noticed, but his heart had started beating faster, almost as fast as when he was standing in the barrel. The memory of standing in wine almost as dark as blood… The screams started to return, and his chest tightened against his will, the pace of his breath almost becoming as fast as the speed of the legs of a man in the middle of a hunt.

Kisa stopped completely and hugged Jod tightly. "Jod, you need to breathe deeply. Your breathing must be slow, slower than the movement of black sugar. You are as safe as you can be in this moment. Peace."

Jod struggled to understand the full meaning of her words while his chest spasmed. Tears once again leaked out his eyes as he thought about being back where his people were murdered in cold blood. He heard the final sounds of their voice as their flames were being extinguished. He tried to breathe deeply. It took several moments for him to calm down enough to speak to Kisa.

"Does this ever end, Kisa?" He implored her. His eyes were squeezed shut as the screams subsided. He could feel water falling freely from his nose.

"With time, yes, and with much peace and forgiveness."

Jod wiped the snot from his nose with the back of his hand. Kisa released the embrace she held him in. "Thank you," he sniffled. "I don't know what this is. It makes me feel like a weak man."

"Most men would agree. They usually drink strong drink and are angry to people. That is how they do not lose their minds."

"I've seen it many times, but I know the answer isn't found at the bottom of a bottle." Jod sighed.

They said nothing to each other for a while, then Jod spoke. "Let's do this, shall we?"

Kisa verbalized her agreement, but she did so without confidence. Then she said, "Wait, Jod, I have an idea."

"What's that?"

"Let me go up first," she explained. "This time, it will be your turn to wait."

"Shall I leave if you don't return quickly?" Jod said.

Kisa let a puff of air out of her mouth. "If that's what you want, but I know it isn't. If there are no soldiers left in the city, I shall return very fast. If I don't, then you can guess that soldiers remain and it will be very difficult for us to escape into the city."

"It's a good plan," Jod admitted. "Be careful," he whispered to her softly as she started her climb.

He could hear the soles of her boots touch each rung of the ladder, then he heard a noise he couldn't identify come from above and away from him. He saw a dark blue light poke through the darkness, then thought he saw the silhouette of Kisa climb slowly out of the tunnel into the light. The night was very difficult to see in the blackness of the tunnel. The sound of the trapdoor shutting and sealing echoed in Jod's head.

He slowly made his way to the ladder, his hand outstretched to keep him from walking directly into it. He used the ladder to help himself sit down safely in the dark. Again, he felt like a child playing "Winter." He could only guess how long Kisa would be. If he was right and the soldiers had done their job, made sure it was done right, and left everyone else alone, Kisa could take some time to blend in with the citizens of Bludthadok and find lodging for herself. If he was wrong, she could take even longer. That's assuming she was going to stay true to her word. Jod supposed that she could come back with the soldiers herself to kill him. He was beginning to hate waiting, especially in the dark and alone.

Footsteps scuffled above him, and then the internal mechanism of the trapdoor clinked quietly. Moonlight bathed the sandy dirt upon which Jod sat.

"Jod," he heard Kisa say. "Come up here. You need to see this."

He struggled to identify the emotion which saturated her voice. He jumped to his feet and scrambled up the ladder, mentally bracing himself for whatever had troubled Kisa. After his head had poked out above the surface, he felt nausea uncoil itself like a snake in the pit of his stomach.

He exited the smuggling tunnel quietly. They stood in the wreckage of what was once his brother's inn. Everywhere he laid his eyes, he saw burnt wood and many large piles of ash. Familiar stores he had shopped and homes he had been inside were reduced to rubble and charcoal. There were a few homes made of stone, and these stood, but even they had black marks on their walls. The walls of the city, the few houses of the city and governmental buildings made of stone, and Alina's statue were mostly unharmed, but everything else had been destroyed. Nausea slithered upward and started flicking its tongue against the back of his throat. It was likely some of the heaps of ash were where the inhabitants had been set aflame.

"There's—" Jod started.

"Nothing," Kisa finished. "Not a single thing is left. There are no stores, no people; nothing. Just remains of the fire that consumed the town."

"How did the trapdoor stay intact?" Jod asked as he stared at the devastation, his eyes drying out from staying open without blinking for so long.

"Made of metal," Kisa said. "Otherwise, the fire would have eaten it too. The onions were gone but the buttons remained."

"I can't believe this," Jod said flatly. His eyes began to sting from remaining open. The moonlight bathed the Empire's crimes for them both to see. Jod climbed out from the tunnel and stood with his arms limp at his sides. Kisa held her arm with her hand and apologized quietly to Jod, but he was unable to respond.

"What's strange is that everything here was burned," Kisa said.

"I don't understand what you mean," Jod said without emotion.

"Everything," Kisa repeated. "Everything was torched when they massacred your people. The soldiers burned the homes and businesses of the Empire's citizens too when they did this."

"I don't understand why they would have done so," Jod said as he met her gaze. "This city would have been important to the Empire. It had fortifications if the Emperor wished to make war against the Zaralahar. Bludthadok had been used several times in the past as a strategic place to fight the Zaralahar as well as the other cities of the Raźna Plains."

"I don't understand either," she said. "But I have seen this before. The Emperor is a cunning and cruel man, Jod. I'm certain this makes sense to him somehow. If you were to meet him, you would be deceived. His words are sweet, sweeter than honey. He lies and tricks people into thinking everything he does is good and just."

"So he's able to manipulate people into going along with whatever suits him?"

Kisa nodded. "Whatever suits him, yes. It does not matter."

Jod walked away from what used to be the storeroom, past the now disintegrated bar in Ire Peźvik, and into the street. Everywhere his gaze fell was ash. The dirt, dust, and ash were kicked up by his feet as he walked through the city and he sneezed a few times as it irritated his nose. He stopped walking and spun his head around one more time, then looked back at Kisa. Nothing except the walls of the city, the few houses, the governmental buildings, and the statue of Alina remained. 

Jod walked back to Kisa with determination in his step. As he approached Kisa, she held up her hands in front of her.

"Jod," she said. "Your face changed. What are you thinking about?"

"I want revenge," he said with an edge in his voice. "I'm angry and I want to be repaid in full for what was taken from me. Life for life."

"It's tragic and you're upset, I know, but that isn't a good stream from which to fill your waterskin."

He raised his hands level to his torso, his palms facing upwards. "Then what am I supposed to do?!" He yelled while hunching over.

"Jod," Kisa said again in a low tone. "You must remain calm. We don't know if there are soldiers close enough to hear you."

Jod ground his teeth together and then sighed. "You're right. I'm sorry. Wild animals are fighting in my chest. I long to find out what happened to my family. I long to find out what happened to my people. I want to know why—" The moonlight glinted off something inside what used to be Ire Peźvik, and it caught Jod's eye. Kisa noticed that something had arrested his attention.

"What is it?" She asked.

"It can't be," he muttered. Jod wondered if what he saw was an illusion brought on by dehydration, hunger, and emotional turmoil. His feet carried him to the glowing yellow metal buried under the rubble. He knelt to clear the soot away to confirm his suspicions. He brushed away what he could with a trembling right hand, then picked up an all-too-familiar necklace. Some flecks of dirt, dust, ash, and stone remained on its face, so he gingerly dusted it on his cloak. It had a thumbnail-sized red jewel set in gold. He stood up as he heard Kisa walking to him.

His childhood again occupied his mind. Some of his first memories were of this necklace, as it belonged to his father, and he could remember looking up at his father's face as a babe and seeing the red stone hanging from his neck.

"This necklace is Peźvik's," he said.

Her eyebrows knitted together. "It is Peźvik's?"

"Yes."

"Impossible," she said. "If he was wearing it and he was burned like the others, the heat from fire would have warped the metal. Gold warms easily. And yet…" Kisa tilted her head to the side in curiosity. "Yet it looks like it has never been touched by flame's finger."

Jod held the necklace up to the sky so that the light from the moon shone on it. "You're right. It's perfectly intact. It looks like it always has."

"This is very strange," Kisa said. "There is nothing here. There could be some food, but I've not seen any belongings. Everything that could have been owned by someone is gone. No dolls for little girls, no wooden swords for young boys, no dishes, no blankets, no shawls for women; not even a drinking horn or a tankard belonging to a man. Everything is gone. How can this be?"

Jod wondered this briefly until a thought popped into his head. "It can only mean one thing if it is intact despite everything else being destroyed. It means some of my family is still alive, and they left it here for me to find so I can know they survived. There is no other way his necklace could be without blemish. Now I know at least some of my family is safe. My brother wouldn't have left it lying around to be stolen or destroyed. He had this on his person."

"May I look at it?" Kisa asked.

Jod nodded and opened his hand, letting Kisa take it herself. She held the chain above her head, spinning the pendant around to look at it more closely. "A master craftsman's cut gem is set in what appears to be pure gold and your language is engraved on the back. And it seems that a fire was somehow cut inside of the jewel without piecing it together! This is something precious and not cheap. The owner of one inn couldn't have purchased this, and especially not one so young. Kisa extended her arm and dropped the necklace into Jod's cupped hands. "Was it your father's?"

"Yes." Jod draped the golden string over his head and tucked the necklace beneath his tunic. "It is a family heirloom. My father had a necklace and a ring, and the pair had been given from father to firstborn son for generations."

"Then why is the ring not here with the necklace?"

"Because Peźvik is not a full-blooded Zaralahar. He is by nature my mother's son, but not my father's. However, by giving him this necklace, my father declared to all Zaralahar that regardless, Peźvik is my father's son and legally my full-blooded brother. My father formally adopted Peźvik and thus into the Zaralahar, since Peźvik's father is aonlahar. I never learned who it was, I only know he was a man of the Plains."

Kisa was very quiet. She carefully put her hand on his shoulder and gave a gentle squeeze. "I pray they all survived."

"Me too," he said while putting his hand on the necklace. The pendant was warm against his skin, like it had been basking in the sunlight before he put it on. He thought it was just his imagination and ignored it. Jod took off his key ring and laid it where he found the necklace.

He looked at Kisa. "Just in case my brother decides to see if anyone retrieved the necklace. Besides, all the things those keys unlocked are now gone." Jod put his hands on his hips. "I guess now, to Zonskaja."

She stared blankly at him. "To where?"

"To my home. Where else would I go next?"

Kisa waved her arm, gesturing at the ruins of Bludthadok. "Jod, look around you. This is what they did to a city in the plains. You don't think the soldiers who committed this heinous act are on their way to your city as we speak? We were lucky to return, and no soldiers laid in wait to see if anyone might."

"I need to see who survived, Kisa. I must, I can't..." Tears swam in his vision as he looked down at his boots. Kisa's boots were in front of his, and he looked up to find a grim look on her face.

Kisa "Coming back here was foolish but necessary to still the troubled waters of your mind. I understood your heart and agreed with you, and compassionately accompanied you. Chasing after your family to your city is sheer stupidity, if I may be direct. I understand you feel compelled to sail in that direction. Should you embark on that voyage, you will be rowing alone."

Jod thought hard. Kisa had a point. Returning to Bludthadok was risky. It felt as if he was dancing with fortune, and if he kept flirting with her, she may reject his advances and soldiers might find him in the Zara Desert. He wiped away the tears from his eyes and met hers. 

"You're right. Why should I chase after them? If they're all alive and not taken as slaves, they would most certainly be hiding from the Empire. I have no idea where they would hide, especially if Peźvik survived. I have no clue where he would take Lovika and Alika, now that I know I don't know as much about my brother as I thought I did.

"If the Empire is trying to wage war against us, then they most assuredly will strike Zonskaja, so you're right. It would be foolish to travel there. If they're alive and were taken as slaves, I have no idea where the Empire's soldiers would have taken them. If they are dead, why should I try to find them? As I see it," Jod said as grief and anger began to brew inside him, like his torso was a cauldron. "There's no reason to try to find them right now. I found the necklace and it's good enough. I will learn what happened to them later and for now, I will concern myself with my own safety."

Kisa let out a breath. "I'm relieved to hear that. However, rather inconveniently, all my things have been destroyed. All I have is what is with me right now. I don't know how we going to survive," Kisa said, her shoulders collapsing along with her countenance.

"Don't worry about that," Jod said brusquely. "You are fortunate to be traveling with someone who knows how to live without shelter and without food that can be purchased at a shop. Besides, I still have some coin with me."

Kisa pointed at him. "But besides that, you have nothing. You don't have a bow nor arrows, nor do you have a sword. What will you do, hmm? Pray to the gods an animal drops dead in front of us so we can eat it raw with our hands?"

Jod gave her a half smile. "I am Zaralahar. It takes a lot to kill us. Even a whole detachment from the Emperor's army would struggle. Did you not notice how they struck us down when we were sleeping? You think you and I have nothing. You couldn't be more wrong. You will see how the Zaralahar survive. How do you think we can live in the desert if we get stranded? Maybe I won't be the only one learning a thing or two as we travel."

"Perhaps," she said, giving his left shoulder a slight push.

Jod chuckled slightly and then looked at the moon. He closed his eyes and said, "It's almost funny how the world keeps its balance, no matter what people do as they live in it. The waves still splash against the shores of the world, the birds still sing as they fly; it's bizarre everything proceeds as normal, as if tragedies like what just happened in Bludthadok never occurred." He emptied his lungs and took a deep breath. "Alright, Kisa. Which direction are we going?"

Kisa crossed her arms. "I want to make sure the Garasek people weren't attacked by the Emperor too. I would like to return to my grandmother. Luckily for us, we have a better relationship with the people of the empire and its sovereign. There is a treaty between the Emperor and the Garasek. We won't take any land that belongs to the Empire if he won't take ours. The Empire trades with us in exchange for taking our warriors if it is required. It is a very uneasy agreement, it's like…" Jod waited for her to find her words. "It is like a wooden bridge over a large river that is broken in several places. It works, it sways under much weight, and most people don't trust the bridge enough to cross the river."

"Ah," Jod said with understanding. "This situation sounds exactly like why the Zaralahar don't want anything to do with the Empire or its rulers."

Kisa started walking towards Jod. She slapped his chest where the pendant was, knocking some of his breath out of him. "Understandable, but look what happened when the Zaralahar told him no. Come," Kisa said.

Jod rubbed his chest where she hit him. "That hurt a little," he said.

"You'll live," Kisa smiled.
