2024/04/30 15:23 - 10,323
A tall, broad-shouldered figure ambled towards an olive gray shrub. He sat on his haunches as he peered into the bush, his eyes scanning for straw-colored berries. His left hand restrained its branches while his right shifted leaves blocking his view. He pursed his lips: some berries ornamented the stem. His right first finger stroked them as his lips pursed tighter. A citrus fragrance teased his greed, bringing to mind all the times he betrayed his customers’ trust. The man plucked a couple berries and jostled them around in his clawed hand. Indecisive eyes followed them as they bounced around like dice preparing to be thrown.

“Zax,” the man cursed. He tilted his hand and watched the berries roll across the ground. Then the figure shot up and stomped on the berries like they were embers from temptation’s fire. He spat a few curses as he kicked up a cloud sandy dirt. A sigh followed the curses, and then he wove thick fingers behind his head. He stared at his walnut-colored boots as he plodded towards his ancient wagon. A thick ruddy canvas provided cover for his possessions and his goods, and a tattered striped flag of cloud-white above gold adorned its side. A creased leather seat greeted him after he heaved himself up the wagon's side.

The distant percussion of wagon wheels bouncing over dusty, tortured terrain drummed anxiety into Jod. He languidly wrapped his hands around thick, braided reins, made heavier by irritation and the merciless heat. He whistled at his horse Caramon, who trotted forward after a whinny. The shrubbery and short russet trees reminded Jod of hair that refused to lay flat against the head.

A pair of ferocious, battle-hardened men wearing stony faces rode towards him. These armored riders sat atop mottled and solid-colored horses respectively, and sunlight glinted harshly off the polished, slightly curved blades strapped to their backs. Jod pounded his chest three times with a right fist, as did the two men before riding away.

Dozens of small carts were each pulled by a single horse, whereas thirty or so large wagons were driven by two horses, sometimes two more. Jod caravaned with other fawn-skinned people, who were also crowned with differing shades of black hair. Some wore tunics and pants while others were robed, yet all garb was red. Shouting and laughter bubbled from children whose ages ranged from the newly-walking to the not-adults, who ran around without direction and discretion.

A speck of dust appeared on the horizon as the sun yielded its grip on the sky. It grew larger as the caravan traveled towards it, swelling in size until a threatening iron gate beset by towering mud-brick walls halted them. The caravan stopped outside the city’s gate as indiscernible shouts were exchanged above them, Finally, a voice yelled, “Raise the gate!”

The walls groaned as the metal gate scraped upwards in a screeching anguish until the city’s maw was fully open. Wagon by wagon, cart by cart, and family by family, the Raźnalahar entered Bludthadok. A field several hundred horses wide lay before the tribe, who had slowly organized their way into the field to set up trade and camp. Children begged parents for coin to purchase exotic goodies as their parents strolled through the Raźna encampment, awed by baubles, tools, weapons, foodstuffs, and fabrics from all over the western part of the plains.
Jod clucked his tongue, stopping when they were closer to the easter edge of the field. He jumped from his seat and unfastened Caramon, leading led him out and away from the wagon’s tongue. Jod stroked his neck and marveled at Caramon’s coat: it was a deep blood bay and smoother than silk. 
Jod sighed contentedly as he pressed the side of his head against Caramon’s neck. “We made it again, reliable one. How are you feeling now that we are here?” Caramon nickered.
“I’m not surprised you’re hungry,” Jod laughed. “Come on, let’s get you stabled.” His horse nickered again, almost expectantly.
Jod and Caramon thronged through the crowd of people gathered in the field, eventually reaching their destination. He carefully secured Caramon’s bridle to a post outside before heading inside. A tall, overweight man with a patchy beard was resting his palms on a wooden counter when Jod walked in, whom he greeted with a smile.
“I knew I was aging, but I didn't think I was going crazy. Is that your father’s horse outside my door?”
Jod returned the man’s smile. “Tomyr, our bodies continue through the seasons, but your eyes have not deceived you. It is him.”
“By the skies, Jod, I'm surprised to see him, year after year!”
“Don't you remember watching his father here?" Jod reminded Tomyr as he tossed his coin purse on timeworn oak counter.
The aging stabler rubbed the nape of his neck. “I'd forgotten. Your family’s horses live almost as long as people. There are grandparents the same age as Caramon.” Tomyr's eyes glanced quickly at Jod’s coin purse as he dropped his beefy arms. “I wanted to ask a favor of you. I was hoping we might barter. This year has been hard for all of us, me included. The Defender of Bludthadok strongly advised I discount the rates I charge Empire soldiers.”
Jod grimaced slightly. “I prefer not to make payments with my goods, as potions, balms, and salves are not the world's currency. Gold is. Was there something you had in mind?”
“Your joint ointment,” Tomyr winced lightly.
Blazes, thought Jod. Of course that one. “The smallest bottle I mix would cover more than a week’s stay here at your stable.”
Tomyr nodded. “I know, and I know this is a large favor to ask of you since so many people need it themselves. This is a personal one.”
Jod said nothing as he slowly approached the counter. His eyes were locked with Tomyr’s before suddenly thrusting out his right hand. “Blazes, To, if it was anyone else, I would have said no. Your family has stabled our horses for four generations, and I’m confident Caramon has lived this long because he gets spoiled rotten before we return home.”
Tomyr beamed and grabbed Jod’s hand with his two paws. “Sfysavos, Jod.”
Jod shook Tomyr’s hand three times. “Most people don’t know about our degrees of gratitude. Where did you learn it?”
“My father learned it from his grandfather. He said your people use it when they want to express deep gratitude.”
“That’s right. It means something like ‘I myself, with my own voice, am owing myself to you.’ It’s a very sincere expression.”
Tomyr rested his hands on the counter. “I mean it. Tomorrow we will record this in our ledgers while observed by someone with authority.”
Jod angled his chin down in affirmation. “I will be able to keep Caramon here for a little over a month, which is the bartered equivalent of the bottle I expect you want. You’re still okay with this?”
“My body isn’t what it used to be. I’d ask even if it meant that my daughter would have to fulfill my debt to you.”
Jod struggled to remember if he had seen his daughter, Feos, the last time he was in Bludthadok. “How is she?”
Tomyr pursed his lips. “Bored. I am confident she yearns to leave Bludthadok.”
“Well, the embers of Zaralahar fire burn inside the Plainsfolk.”
“That was such a long time ago, Jod. Surely the fire has been watered down by now.”
Jod raised an eyebrow. “Maybe, but the fire never gets the chance to die when we keep returning. Thanks again, To, for everything.”
The older man nodded. “For your family? Anything.”
 Jod left the stable and had to fight his way back to his wagon. Something unusual caught his eye, and he stopped to watch it. Three children, well-dressed and moderately clean, sat facing each other. Two boys and a girl. The smaller boy had his hand upside down, and the girl scooped up some dirt from beside her and carefully placed it into his hand. The boy closed his eyes, flaring his nostrils as he took a deep breath, and then opened them quickly. The dirt began to shakily float upwards, and the other two children marveled at this phenomenon with open mouths. Jod couldn’t use magic and he didn’t know any Zaralahar that could. He didn’t mind it, however. He wasn’t afraid of it, though some from his tribe and the others were.
Jod paused for a moment to watch the children, smiled to himself, and then continued to shove people out of his way. He returned to his wagon and pulled out the things he needed to raise his tent in front of his wagon. Jod set up his tent with practiced ease, and then he climbed into the wagon bed again to retrieve the things he had for sale. The townspeople were already inquiring about his wares, hazolaet in particular, before he had finished setting up his booth. Hasazo, a thriving fruit in the Raźna Plains, had unique properties not shared with any other plants. Its flesh was edible and it naturally, without fermentation, had effects like alcoholic beverages.
While anyone could make its juice, Jod was the preferred person in the Raźna tribe who made it best. It was especially convenient the plant grew nearly everywhere in the plains, for if some of his other poultices, potions, and concoctions underperformed when he traded in a city or town, he could fall back on hazolaet to turn a modest profit. If he sold out in the first few days, he was more than capable of making about four or so more barrels before the Raźna would prepare to leave for the next destination on their trade route.
Jod was not the wealthiest man in the world, nor was he among the richest of the Zaralahar, but he never did without. His belly was usually full, his thirst always quenched. He never longed for a warm bed and a woman to accompany him whilst he lay in it. Yet even with these creature comforts, he still felt unsatisfied with his life, as if his life’s wagon’s wheels were turning but the wagon was not moving in any direction. 
He brought out a few chests and unlocked them and arranged the rest of his table. Jod went inside the wagon once more, ensuring he had plenty of hazolaet to sell. One, two, three, four, five barrels. This will more than suffice. He went to the end of the wagon, threw back the curtains with dramatic flair, and announced with vigor, “People of Bludthadok, Jod’s Apothecary has once again returned to your city! I have cures for what ails and pains you! I also have hazolaet, so buy it now before the Zaralahar return home for the winter!”
Upon hearing the word “hazolaet,” more people flocked towards him. Hazolaet was a highly coveted beverage by people who couldn’t create it for themselves and was always in enormously high demand. As the people of Bludthadok asked him all manners of questions about his products, he realized he had forgotten to uncork a barrel of hazolaet to pour samples for the curious tongues. He ducked below his counter and grabbed barrel he had designated “the sampler.” To the left of it was a box containing the tap he purchased in another city, as well as four cups he had used countless times to entice idling onlookers to become customers. He hefted on its side onto the counter with a grunt, placed the box next to it and flipped open its lid. He wanted to sell at least one barrel of hazolaet before the nightfall.
The crowd of people gathering at the front of his tent was not small. One person stood to his left, close enough to observe him but far enough away to not draw attention to herself. She stood still for about ten minutes, then walked closer to the table, then disappeared for a while; long enough for Jod to forget her. She later reappeared on his right, even closer than before. He noticed she was not much shorter than he, with exquisite, unblemished white skin, high cheekbones, and hair as black as his own, intricately braided and tied behind her head. She wore a dark burgundy tunic, matching pants and suede, black leather boots which nearly ended at her knee. Her clothes seemed to be made by master craftsman’s hands. She looked inquisitively at the table where Jod placed the sampler barrel and furrowed her brow upon seeing the amber liquid rush out of the hole he bored himself. One of his regular customers approached him, giving Jod a ram’s horn to fill after placing a small, but pregnant with copper, coin purse on his table. He filled the horn and thanked the man.
“Is there something I can help you with, miss?” Jod asked without so much as raising his head or eyes to acknowledge her.
“Doubtful,” he heard her say in a low, mocking voice. He didn’t meet her eyes as he took the coins from his regular customer, who thanked him before bidding him farewell.
“While it isn’t unheard of for someone to stop at a shop without purchasing something, I think it is odd someone might stop by twice without saying a word.” He looked at her face and saw pale blue eyes staring into his.
She stood before him without moving a single muscle, her arms folded tightly across her chest. “This seems to be a popular drink. The people who live here like it very much. I’ve never seen a trader make his money by selling juice and potions. Quite a peculiarity.”
A slight smile tugged on the corner of his mouth. “This isn’t anything I haven’t already heard hundreds of times before. Hazolaet is mostly unknown to the rest of the world. Many travelers become curious about hazolaet and after one sip, join the thirsty who desire it. It’s nothing ordinary and it tastes exceptional. You yourself should try some.”
“I’d expect to hear these words from the mouth of the man hawking his wares.”
While her words sounded harsh, the tension in her shoulders seemed to slacken and the mask of her face seemed to loosen. “This is something you’ll hear from anyone who thirsts for my drink,” he replied.
A sharp breath escaped from her nostrils. “You have a way with words,” she remarked.
“I paint pictures with the words I speak,” he said.
She gasped in a mocking way, but it didn’t seem to be hurtful. “And you’re a poet!”
He tilted his head down as a nonverbal thank you. “Your words are too kind. I’m just a man trying to share my best with the world.”
She stepped closer and nodded at the barrel. “This is your best?”
Jod nodded. “I only sell the best. Anything less is unacceptable for my people, and I do not sell what I would not drink.”
She shifted her weight onto her left leg and chewed on her lip. “Then perhaps I will try some.”
He took a cup out of the box and poured some hazolaet into it, enough to whet an appetite for it, and then took his own cup from below the table’s surface. He proceeded to pour some hazolaet for himself. He placed the sample on the far side of the table for her to take. “A toast to my soon-to-be newest customer!”
She took the cup with her right hand and maintained eye contact with him as she brought the cup to her lips. She pressed the rim to her mouth. Jod lifted his cup to his mouth and let a stream of hazolaet irrigate his tongue. Hasazo had a noble flavor, akin to a mango, with melon subtleties which simultaneously quenched thirst yet created one for more. Hazolaet bottled the regal taste of this fruit and gave it a velvety soft feel when it was imbibed; it was not thin like liquor, nor was it thick and sickening to drink, like some of the medicine he sold. Jod would grind a special blend of flowers, herbs, spices, and grains in a mortar and pestle until they became a fine powder. Then it was gently stirred into the juice, giving it a taste familiar and unknown, as if it was a distant relative of rum. Altogether, it made a smoothly vibrant and enticing drink.
After seeing him swallow, she too drank the hazolaet in her cup, then looked at the cup once she had swallowed it. She put the cup down on the table and stood in front of him, across from the table. Her expression was unreadable and puzzling to Jod. The people quieted around her, waiting in anticipation for her reaction.
“Well?”
“Maybe I’ll buy some after all.” The people cheered. “But it will have to be tomorrow. I don’t have coin with me.” The people groaned.
“Are you staying in Bludthadok?”
She hesitated, then said, “Yes. I’m staying at an unusual place. It’s an inn near the southern wall. It has a proper name, but it is called by the people here ‘Ir Peźvik.’”
Jod laughed. “It’s a good inn to rest your head when you are in this city.”
“I’ve heard. I’ve also heard, ‘An awful name—’”
“‘For such an amazing stay.’” He finished her sentence with her, at which she smiled brightly.
“Have you stayed there?” She asked.
“Many times,” he said. “My brother is the owner.”
“Ah,” she said as she turned to go, “Then it is certain you have.”
He placed his hand on his chest. “My name is Jod, by the way. And you are…?”
She stopped, then turned slowly to look at him. She smiled at him softly. “I am called Kisa.” With that, she walked away. Thoughts of his strange encounter swirled through his head, like the hazolaet he continued to pour, through the evening and into the newborn night. When the sky began to display a rich shade of violet and deep reds, a pair of familiar people approached his table. The shorter one beamed at him, causing Jod’s heart to swell with love.
“Alika, my favorite niece! Come give me a hug!”
Jod’s niece ran behind the table and squeezed him tightly. “I’m your only niece, uncle!”
“Easy, easy! You’re gonna kill me!”
The little girl giggled. Her hair was sandy brown and was tied high behind her head with a ribbon the same color red as Jod’s clothing. She had a missing front tooth and large brown eyes. “I think you’ll be okay. May I go inside your wagon?” She asked excitedly.
Jod looked at her mother, Lovika. Her mother looked at her sternly and said, “Only if you don’t break a single thing,” She patted her once on the head. “Go.” Alika squealed with delight and dashed behind him. Lovika opened her arms to hug Jod as she walked behind his counter. “It’s good to see you again, Jod.” 
He was enveloped in the fragrance of wildflowers and a feeling of contentment as he wrapped his arms around the shoulders of his sister-in-law. “It’s good to see you too, Lovika. Tell me, how is my brother? You look well and as radiant as ever.”
She smiled warmly at him. Alika looked exactly like her mother. Lovika wore a shawl over her head and wore a light red robe, with her light brown her tied behind her head with the same color ribbon.  Her eyes were a mixture of brown and green. “Thank you, Jod. You look healthier than the last time I saw you. Peźi’s fine. He asked me to find out if you were able to set aside a barrel for him on the day of your arrival?”
“As always. I’m almost offended he’d ask,” Jod joked.
“Good. You won’t be sleeping in your wagon.” The corner of one of Lovika’s lips sharply rose upwards.
“The music of your voice sounds like a command and a question in one sentence,” he moaned.
Lovika put her hands on his shoulders. “Because I’m commanding someone with a thick skull he will not sleep like Zaralahar while he stays in the city where his family lives. I’m asking you again because you seem to think you’ll manage to not be victimized by our hospitality.”
“I can only hope.”
Lovika waved her hand dismissively. “One of these days, you would do well to put this hope to death. You have neither choice nor say in the matter.” Lovika started to walk away from him, and as she walked away, she called over her shoulder, “Bring the barrel with Alika when you come to the inn for the night.”
“Oh, now I’m the babysitter?”
She continued walking, not turning to look at Jod. “We’re expecting you both to be back at the inn at a reasonable time.”
He chuckled as he turned around to look inside his wagon. “Hey, Alika!” Her head shot up from looking at everything Jod needed to make and sell his products. “I’m going to continue selling for about a half hour or so and then we’re going to go home. Don’t break anything and don’t hurt yourself.”
“Okay!” She said brightly. “By the way, mama forgot to tell you, but you aren’t supposed to eat before bringing me back home. Some of the dinner prepared for the guests will be set aside for you tonight.”
Nasty Plainsfolk food? No thanks. “Thank you for letting me know, Liku.”
“Uh-huh.” She started to go through some of her favorite things of his and took them from the pile she created on the floor of his tent, pretending loudly to make a potion to grow up faster. He smiled, reminiscing fondly over his own childhood, then returned to the thirsty who eagerly waited for him.
He sold a decent amount of his apothecary stock and kept pouring drinks for the people of Bludthadok, until finally, he emptied the second barrel. He corked the empty barrel and cleared the cups off the top of the table, putting them back into the box to be washed. He made sure he had all the money he had made so far, then he rolled the second empty barrel inside his tent. His niece was lying on the bed of his wagon and looked up at him when he entered.
“Uncle? I’m sleepy.”
Jod yawned. “Me too. Here, put this box next to the pile you have made while I lock everything up.”
She sprung to her feet and did as she was told. He put on his hooded cloak, an old but thick black fabric which ended above his knees. He grabbed a brass keyring from his belt and locked the three ancient, wooden chests that contained the ingredients his business required. He fastened the keyring back to his belt and flipped the barrel he had set aside for Peźvik on its side. Jod grabbed his satchel and slung it over his right shoulder, patted the side of his right leg to make sure he had his coin purse, and began to roll Peźvik’s barrel to the back of the wagon.
In an instant Alika was by his side. Jod lifted the barrel onto his shoulder and listened to all the stories his niece told him about what had happened since he was last there. About an hour and a half after night had fallen, Jod and Alika stood in front of a large stone hall with a plain wooden door for an entrance. Painted on the side of the door was the sentence Jod had said at the same time with the mysterious lady. It had become a bit of a good-natured joke throughout the city and his brother Peźvik didn’t mind it at all. He had a different name for the inn when it first opened, but eventually, the nickname for his inn stuck and he didn’t bother to have a sign made to hang above the door. Someone painted the nickname to the right of the door, and it had drawn so much business, he didn’t bother to scrub it off.
Alika opened the door, and the savory odor of roast pig wafted into his nose. No, that isn’t Plainsfolk food. This almost smells Zaralahar! Jod’s stomach grumbled. The sound of people talking, laughing, and singing, along with the music being played by the bards against the back wall invigorated his weary body.
“Uncle, I’m gonna let mama know that I’m home. Then I’m gonna eat and go to bed.”
“Okay Alika, I’ll find your father on my own. Thanks for keeping me company as I made my way over here.”
“You’re welcome! May the light of the moon fall softly on you.”
“And may the light of the moon fall softly on you, beloved one.”
As soon as Alika ran off, a hand slapped Jod’s back. “Brother! The sun has shone upon you with favor!”
“And it has shone upon you with favor as well!” Jod grinned and turned to face his brother.
“I know it has only been a few months, but you look like ten winters! Are you finally worn out from the road?”
The hulking frame of his older brother Peźvik blocked most of his vision. The largest muscles Jod had ever seen were visible everywhere on his brother’s frame and even beneath his shirt. His hair was cut short, covering the crown of his head and the back, but the sides of his head were skin bald. A well-groomed beard hugged his face, but a patch of bare skin on his right cheek betrayed a crooked scar a finger’s length. His teeth were stained from a plant that perfumed the breath and his arms and hands were as woolly as a sheep.  “Not yet, but the people from your city have kept me busy pouring their drinks today. Hopefully, the road isn’t like this all the way back to Zonskaja. I’m exhausted.”
Peźvik laughed heartily. “What’s the matter? Are worried you your coin purse will be too heavy to carry home to Zonskaja? Come, let’s eat and drink together. Tell me about your travels.”
Peźvik threw the barrel of hazolaet onto his shoulder and began to make his way to the far side of the inn, where a young woman was serving drinks. People greeted Jod cheerfully and toasted Peźvik as he cleaved a path for himself and Jod towards the counter. They knew what was in the barrel, and they know who had made it.
Jod followed the trail his brother made and saw there were soldiers wearing the heraldry of the Empire scattered across the inn, seated at many of the tables. He furrowed his brow as he pulled a stool from below the counter, sat on top of it and watched his brother disappear into the back room where the inn’s supplies were stored. He placed his drinking cup on the counter loudly and the young woman he saw serving drinks before rushed to greet him.
“Hello, what can I get for you this evening?” 
“My brother, if you can pull him away from whatever it is he’s doing.”
She nodded, stepping away from him. As she made her way to the back, she tripped over some wooden crates stacked neatly, albeit unwisely, next to the corner of an archway which led to the stockroom. He drummed his fingers against the wood next to his cup as he waited for his brother to appear. The noise in the inn got louder as time wore on. After several minutes, his brother stood in front of him with a plate and a dirty apron he wasn’t wearing before. 
“I see Lovika has roped you back into your duties.” Jod smirked.
His brother swore under his breath. “Yes, no matter what the occasion is, even my only living family member coming to town, I can’t get away from the responsibilities of the business.”
Jod looked at the plate. “And what’s this you’ve set aside for me?”
His brother set the plate below Jod’s chin. He could see vegetables, mostly the same color, and meat that looked like roasted lamb chops.
“It’s very similar to the meal we have served our guests, but since this was our dinner, I made it in the traditional way.”
Jod’s eyes widened. “Really? Where did you get the spices for the meat?”
Peźvik folded his arms and rested his elbows on the counter. “I got the blend from the third tribe when they were last here, about a month and a half ago. I couldn’t remember from whom our father always purchased it from in the Araźna tribe, so I waited until the Zon would be here so I wouldn’t offend the family father used to trade with.”
“I’m excited to eat it. It’s been a long time since I have eaten anything of home. I’m eager to get back to Zonskaja.”
Peźvik closed his eyes and sighed deeply. “Sometimes I miss it, Jvodik. I really do.” Suddenly, a loud crash came from the stockroom. Peźvik rolled his eyes and turned around, disappearing past the corner of the archway. Alika darted out as Peźvik chased after her.
“Lovika!” Peźvik hollered from the stockroom. “Hide our daughter somewhere before I thrash her!”
Jod laughed boisterously when he saw his brother’s reddened face storm back to the counter. “Children: the ash in your hair and beard.”
Peźvik took a deep breath while glaring at Alika, who giggled as she walked away with her mother. “More ash and dust than I care to admit.”
“For now. Give it time. She can’t be nearly as bad as we were when we were children.”
“Oh yes, how could I forget? You, Lovika, and I; all the trouble we used to get into as children. It’s a miracle we are even still alive.”
Jod scoffed. “We were fine.”
“Do you recall the time you almost drowned?”
“How can I forget? It’s why I don’t swim.”
Peźvik pointed at the food on his brother’s plate. “You’d better eat before Lovika sees you haven’t even touched your food.”
Hunger clawed at Jod’s stomach as he remembered how long it had been since he last ate. He took his fork and knife from the satchel slung over his shoulder and sliced off a piece of the lamb. He stabbed the fork into the meat and stuffed it inside his mouth, moaning at the tenderness and flavor. “It truly is just like home, Peźi.”
“Yes, it is. I haven’t forgotten how to be Zaralahar just because I no longer walk with you.”
“It’s been a long time since you’ve established yourself,” Jod replied after cheeking a mouthful of vegetables.
“Sometimes I wonder if you yourself will stop walking with them too, brother.”
The fires from the hearth and the roasting pits made the inn feel very cozy, yet now, the inn became less warm. “Peźvik…”
Peźvik slammed both his hands against the counter. For a moment, there was a pause in the music and conversation, which promptly resumed when the guests saw nothing was the matter. “Don’t ‘Peźvik’ me, Jod. We have this conversation at least once a year.”
“I don’t know why we do. You know how I feel about leaving the tribe!” Jod shot back.
“Of course I know. But is it leaving the tribe you’re concerned with, or your lifestyle? I will admit, Jvodik, it has its charms. Sleeping with women whenever you want, money all for yourself and not to share with anyone you don’t want to. Drinking as much as you want. Eating as much as you want. I understand the appeal. Sometimes,” his voice softened to a whisper as he leaned close to Jod’s face, “sometimes I would say I even envy you.”
“So then again, I ask you, why are you bringing this up? I like traveling to each city, having sex with the women I want, eating and drinking to my heart’s content, and doing as I please.” Jod broke eye contact with his brother and kept eating the food on his plate.
His brother stood straight again, towering over Jod as he finished eating. “Do you? I doubt your words because I know you also want to have a family too,” his brother said. “I know you.”
“Yes, a family is something I want,” Jod said slowly, unsure where Peźvik was going with this.
“And I know you don’t want a wife who is Zaralahar,” Peźvik said matter-of-factually.
Jod’s jaw dropped. His fork fell out of his hand, clattering against his plate. “Why would you say these words? What makes you think this way?”
“If you wanted a Zaralahar wife, you would have already found one. You’re a handsome fellow. And another thing: you warm beds with aonlahar in the cities you visit. It’s obvious to everyone but yourself you don’t desire a Zaralahar woman. One more thing, little brother. You don’t walk under the sun because of the women, or the food or drink, or the money, Jod. You walk because it’s in your blood, but the Zara Desert and the Raźna Plains are familiar to you. You need to leave and go where Zaralahar haven’t been already. We are rovers. Nomads. We thrive on the unknown. That’s why our people wandered back into the Plains after establishing Zonskaja. That’s why I left, and that’s why you will leave too. You’re too accustomed to everything you know, and you thirst for more.”
The woman from earlier popped into Jod’s mind. His thoughts began to wander about how soft her skin might be, what her hair smelled like; then he wondered why he thought of her at all and shoved her from his mind. “Maybe you’re right.”
Peźvik wagged his finger at Jod. “I know I am right.”
“Am I correct in thinking you want me to stay here in Bludthadok with you, Lovika, and Alika?”
Peźvik’s face softened.  “Of course. You know, Alika keeps asking why she can’t learn how to make the drink with you, Jod.”
“You know why I can’t.”
“She doesn’t understand. And anyway, she technically could.”
“Because while she is Zaralahar, at the same time, she is not. She can’t, and she will never understand because she wasn’t brought up walking—”
Peźvik held up his hand. “Walking under the sun, I know. Blazes, Jod, you love telling me things I don’t like to hear and things I already know.”
Jod smiled sadly at his brother. “I think maybe you have forgotten how to be Zaralahar.”
Peźvik raised his eyebrows at Jod, opening his mouth, then closing it again. After an uncomfortable moment he took Jod’s cup from the table. “I’ll be right back with some hazolaet. I’m sure you don’t want to keep talking about this. I know you want to cloud the sun of your mind.”
“And yet you still talk like us. Reconcile these differences for me, brother.”
Peźvik playfully smacked the side of Jod’s head. “I am still Zaralahar. Maybe even more so than you since I have roamed further than our people. The fire still burns in my body, Jvodik. Neither you nor I can help that, and neither can Alika.” Peźvik bent below the counter and handed a full cup of hazolaet to Jod. 
Jod guffawed. “Aha! I see you’ve been rationing it!”
Peźvik smiled. “I raised the price.”
Jod took a sip from his cup and looked at his brother over the rim of his cup.  “You want to keep it for yourself, hmm?”
Peźvik grinned. “Naturally. Anything exciting from the road this time?”
As Jod took a breath to answer his brother’s question, the door to the inn was thrust open, banging against the wall with such force chips of wood flew from the back. The sudden loud noise startled many of the occupants, some spilling their drinks onto their shirts, a few clutched their respective chests; one man swallowed wrong and began to choke. The bards stopped playing their instruments and stopped singing. All conversation and laughter ceased.
A man wheezed at the door, his left hand against the frame of the door to help support him. He was Zaralahar, wearing a filthy, ripped, yellow tunic which was frayed at the cuffs of his sleeves. There were stains of different kinds, some appeared to be blood. His hair fell about his face, rising and falling with his ragged breaths. He appeared to have been running hard and long, for his bare feet were cut and bruised. Jod met his gaze and saw the man stared blankly over the heads of the people of the inn, his eyes searching for something unseen. His body trembled violently as he stumbled into the inn.
“Everyone, stay calm. It’s a very road-worn traveler of Zaralahar,” Peźvik said. “Please, don’t be alarmed.” Peźvik suddenly spoke in Zaranazyk, their native tongue, to Jod. “Bring him to the counter at once so we can feed him and speak with him. Something must be wrong. The third tribe was just here, and you know as well as I do the Zaralahar don’t double back when they walk under the sun.”
Jod nodded and quickly walked to the entrance. He helped the man to his feet, put the man’s right arm over his shoulders and helped him walk to the bar. The guests of the inn went back to their eating and drinking. The bards began to play their music again, but now the atmosphere was much different. Every Raźnalahar in the inn knew something dreadful must have happened if a man from the Zon tribe returned to Bludthadok. 
The man sat on the stool to the right of Jod and shuddered. His shivering didn’t stop. Jod knew he was not shivering because of the temperature of the inn.
“Peźvik, fetch a blanket to wrap around the man,” Jod said firmly to his brother. “This man is deeply troubled.”
Peźvik nodded and walked briskly from behind the counter to retrieve one. The man kept shaking and muttering incoherently.  Jod pushed his cup in front of him. “It’s hazolaet. Drink.”
The man grabbed the cup, gulped it down, and let go of the cup. It clattered across the floor. He looked at his hands, his face contorting into grief, and he began weeping. The noise quieted down again, and all the people of Jod’s tribe stopped doing everything they were doing to listen to what the man from Zon had to say.
“Dead, they’re all dead,” he struggled to say between sobs. He spoke in Zaranazyk and not in Plainspeak.
Jod felt chills run up and down his spine. He assumed this was news only for Zaralahar, so he responded in his first language. “Dead?”
“Dead,” the man repeated. “They’re all dead, they’ve been killed, they—”
Peźvik came up behind the man and wrapped a blanket around his shoulders. “Shh,” Peźvik said. “Take it easy, brother. Calm yourself, you’re safe here. You’re with Zaralahar. Don’t talk until you’re ready to tell us what happened. I’ll pour you more drink.”
The man thanked Peźvik and fell silent. Peźvik grabbed a new cup from below the counter and poured the man more hazolaet. He drank it almost as quickly as he drank it the first time. This time, he carefully placed the empty cup on the counter. He wrapped the blanket tighter around himself and slowly began to rock back and forth, trying hard to stifle sobs.
Many minutes passed before the man calmed down. He wiped his face with the blanket, then began to speak in Zaranazyk. “We had already left Aźaźir. We weren’t very far from Zonskaja, maybe seven days’ travel, maybe a week and a half away. When we were in Aźaźir, we had noticed like here in Bludthadok, there were Empire soldiers present. We thought it odd, so after the first day of trading, we decided we should see what business the Empire had this far south. It is known the Empire has no interest in any of these cities, so we thought it was strange to see soldiers in Ir Bludthadok and Aźaźir.
“When we asked what business the Empire had in the Raźna Plains, their answer was they were sent on diplomatic orders. They said the Emperor was aware that every winter, the Zaralahar gather as one nation in Zonskaja until the worst is over, and they said he is interested in finding a way to make peace with our people to bring about more prosperity to the Empire and to the Zaralahar.
“We told them, ‘Our prosperity doesn’t depend on the Emperor or the Empire. We already have everything we need.’” After saying this, the Raźnalahar who could hear his story nodded their heads and strained their ears to listen more closely.
“They said the Emperor knew that’s how the nation of Zaralahar was, and over the course of many generations, there was an enmity between the Empire and our people. They said the Emperor no longer wishes for anything to be between the Empire and the Zaralahar. He wished to extend peace, to encourage trade between the Zaralahar and the rest of the world.
“We repeated what we said because it is the truth, then added, ‘We do not speak for the nation of Zaralahar.’ We also told them they were not welcome to travel with us, that Zonskaja opens herself only to the people that are able to survive Zara. Simply following the trade route would not be enough to get to our city alone.
He took a shaky breath and continued. “They said they knew this. The Emperor had informed them it would be a challenging mission of which many were likely going to die crossing the Zara Desert. To him, they said, it was worth establishing trust between our nations. We weren’t sure if they were telling the truth, but regardless, we decided we would cease trading immediately and leave for Zonskaja the next morning.
“We set up camp a few nights after we left. It was well into the night, maybe even the early morning when cries of ‘Death!’ began to be screamed by the Zon. I can still hear…”
His voice trailed off as tears began to choke the words from his mouth. The Raźnalahar seated close enough to hear his story looked at themselves and the soldiers. The soldiers and the rest of the people occupying the inn seemed to have forgotten about the strange man who had burst into the inn, as they were caught up in their eating, drinking, and laughter once more.
“It was a bloodbath. A slaughter. It was completely unexpected and came without warning. We had no idea how they traveled so quickly or how they managed to track us. As far as I know, I’m the only one who escaped with his life. I was able to survive by hiding among the corpses of my wife and children.”
Tears began to fall down his face. He lifted his tunic, revealing a dark red, angry wound which was weeping and oozing pus down the side of his body. “They,” he said as he cast an ugly look at the soldiers in the inn. “were ordered to ensure everyone was dead. I was struck with a spear, but not far enough over to the right.”
Jod sat there dumbfounded. “How did you run here? How did you escape with your life?”
“I laid there for an entire day and then some of the night. I was certain they were waiting to see if anyone had survived, so I did my best to wait them out. I got up and ran north and didn’t stop to eat, only to drink when necessary.”
“And no one has given you away? You haven’t seen any more of the Empire or its soldiers as you ran?” Jod asked.
The man shook his head. Peźvik stood silent, glancing at the man and at all the Raźna who were seated at the tables. Then Jod said reluctantly, “I don’t know what to think.”
The man turned to Jod with fire and tears in his eyes. “What are you saying? Are you suggesting I would run here hoping to see your tribe, the Raźna, and warn them of the fate likely in store for them? You think I made it all up? To what end?” He said angrily through clenched teeth.
“No, I—”
“Maybe I had too much to drink and I hit my head or something?”
“Of course not!” Jod growled. “No. I don’t know what to think. Nothing like this has ever happened before. I’m not saying your story isn’t true, it just sounds so very strange, I don’t know what to make of it.”
The man stood up from his stool and scooted it back, rage reddening his face. “It’s already too late for you. I risked my own life to come here to warn you so you would go to sleep tonight with a weapon under your pillow. I thought maybe a life or two could be saved if I walked back on the sun to tell the Raźnalahar.” He threw Jod’s cup to the ground. “These dogs will probably kill me after I leave this inn. But as for you,” he spat on the counter. “Your doubts are the cause of your deaths.” He let the blanket fall to the floor and walked to the door. He slammed it open against the wall and violently shut it behind him without another word.
Suddenly, the exotic woman sat exactly where the Zolnlahar man had been sitting. “Is this seat occupied?” She asked.
“No,” Jod said absentmindedly, not fully realizing who took the man’s seat. He bent over to pick up his cup off the ground. As he straightened his back in his stool, he recognized the woman from earlier sat next to him. “Hello again!”
She smiled warmly at him then turned her head around and looked at the door. “This man was Zaralahar?”
“Yes, of a different tribe,” Peźvik answered. “He had some news for this tribe which was bothersome to hear.”
“Ah.” She turned to Peźvik. “I met this man earlier today.”
Peźvik’s eyes grew large. “You saw him earlier today?!”
She shook her head. “No, forgive me. This language, ‘Plainspeak,’ this is not something typically spoken where I am from. I meant to say I met your brother earlier today.”
Peźvik folded his arms again. “You do have an unusual accent. Some of your sounds are like Garasenek, but your accent sounds more eastern, more like how people who live in the Empire sound. If you grew up in the Raźna Plains, you grew up in the north-eastern part of the plains. Not quite central, but not so eastern you didn’t learn to speak Garasenek.”
She laughed. “You’re close! You have good ears.”
Peźvik filled Jod’s cup with hazolaet. “I wouldn’t be a good innkeeper if I didn’t know a thing or two about the world, eh? My name’s Peźvik. It is my pleasure to meet you.”
Jod looked at her curiously. “I thought you weren’t being truthful about staying at my brother’s inn.”
“And why not?”
Jod shrugged. “People hide their intentions. It’s not rare for people to lie about who they are, where they’re from, how much money they have-”
“If they actually want to keep living the life they currently live,” Peźvik interrupted him and looked at him slyly. Jod shot him a dirty look.
“I see,” Kisa said, looking at Peźvik and then Jod. “This news, what was it about?”
“The Empire,” Jod said. “Something bad happened.”
“Of course. The Empire is nothing good,” Kisa said.
Peźvik looked at Jod. “Which is exactly why it would be a good idea for you to settle down, brother.” He spoke quietly in Zaranazyk so the rest of the inn wouldn’t be able to hear his words. “It sounds like the Empire is up to something. Even if this man’s story wasn’t completely true, the fact remains there have been more soldiers around these parts recently than in all the years of Alika’s life.” He rubbed his chin thoughtfully. “Not just soldiers, no. More citizens of the empire, but many more soldiers, nonetheless. Are you able to disagree with me?”
Jod mulled this over in his mind. He remembered walking under the sun with Peźvik and their parents; he remembered when his entire family walked with the rest of the Raźna tribe. He didn’t recall seeing any soldiers as a boy. It wasn’t until he was almost an adult that he had even seen the fingers of the Emperor’s hands reaching across the world. What the Raźna Plains had to offer the Empire was beyond him. The Zara Desert was uninhabitable to people besides the Zaralahar. He couldn’t imagine why the Emperor would bother with the people who lived in the Raźna Plains or the Zaralahar especially.
However, Peźvik had a point. The Empire certainly was making its presence more noticeable in the Plains, and nothing good could come of this fact. The cities of the Raźna Plains might be more agreeable to the Empire’s demands and submit to the Emperor, but the Zaralahar would never do such a thing. Their traditions existed before the Empire was established, and according to the family entrusted with maintaining the history of the Zaralahar, their traditions had been practiced since they were first united as a nation. Staying Zaralahar and not deviating from tradition, which is exactly what Peźvik was suggesting Jod do, was what mattered. However, if the Empire truly did massacre members of the Zon, then what would be the point of practicing traditions and passing them down to Zaralahar if there were no Zaralahar left to pass on to?
“No, brother, I can’t disagree with you. You speak truth as you always have.”
“Not always, but more often than not.”
Kisa looked inquisitively at Jod’s cup. “This is more of your drink?”
Jod nodded. “Of course. It is the drink of our people. We rarely drink any other fermented beverage because to our tongues, this tastes the best.”
Kisa looked at Peźvik. “I have coin with me.”
“If you’re trying to pay, don’t say another word. I won’t accept payment from you.”
“You know that’s why I said that!”
Jod groaned. “You have made acquaintance with me. He won’t take your money. Just accept what he offers and don’t protest. He always does this.”
She smiled. “For all of your friends or just the female ones?”
Peźvik held his stomach as he laughed with his mouth open. “She’s onto you, Jvodik! You had better be careful! Here, drink this.” He poured a glass of hazolaet for Kisa and set it down on the counter, close to her left hand. “Drink with us.”
Peźvik poured himself some hazolaet and raised his cup. “To the Zaralahar and to the prosperity of Zonskaja!” All the Zaralahar echoed his toast. After Peźvik took a long drink, the rest of the Raźnalahar, Kisa, and Jod drank their hazolaet as well.
 Peźvik sighed happily. “This drink will always taste good. It reminds me of home, Jvodik.”
Jod flashed a grin. “Because I make it in our ways and the warmth of the sun is captured in its liquid.”
“Is that how you sell it to people? Father did well to pass the business to you and not me. Not only do you craft the best tasting hazolaet our people have drunk in years, but your tongue weaves words that are smoother than the finest silk.” Peźvik wiped his hands on his apron. “Well, I suppose I should get back to my duties and help Lovika prepare for the night and the morning meal. Do you know how long the Raźna plan to stay in Bludthadok?”
Jod shrugged. “It seems we have a few more days of trading, but no more than five. Many have had a tough year.”
“We all have.” A shout came from behind Peźvik, and he looked back at them apologetically. “My wife requires my immediate presence. Jod, you know where you will be staying?”
“How could I possibly forget?”
“Will you forget our conversation?”
Jod sighed. “I will give it serious contemplation. I promise you, brother.”
Peźvik nodded. “Thank you. May the light of the moon fall softly on you both tonight.”
Kisa smiled at Peźvik. “And on you.”
Peźvik disappeared into the stockroom. Suddenly Jod yawned twice in a row. He looked over and saw Kisa staring into her cup. “What’s the matter? Is it too full or too empty?”
She tittered. “Where I’m from, we say, ‘It doesn’t matter. Another drink is necessary.’”
“And would you like another?”
“No, thank you.” Her response was simple but not cold.
“Of course. Etiquette and respect are treasured among the Zaralahar. Also, I don’t intend to leave a woman alone.”
She laughed. “Am I?”
Jod closed his eyes. “I didn’t mean—”
Kisa held up her hand and cut him off. “I know. I’m okay, thank you.”
Jod shook his head. “My apologies. I will now take my leave to get some sleep. May the light of the moon fall softly on you.”
She looked back into her cup.  “Sleep well, Jod.”
Jod stood up from his stool and walked behind Kisa. He squeezed his way through the thick crowd and made his way to the staircase against the far side of the inn. Each leg felt like a log to be split for a campfire. He couldn’t believe how tired he was from traveling as well as from trading, and then hearing the news about the Zon tribe weighed heavily in his heart. He was eager to close his eyes and get some rest.
He took a right at the top of the stairs and stumbled to the end of the hallway. The commotion was still audible, but it seemed distant and hazy, as if it was a dream. Jod unfastened his keyring and unlocked the door in front of him. The door swung open, and to his surprise, a short, blonde woman stood next to the bed he almost fell into. Her hair was wavy, and it tumbled like a waterfall from her head, crashing onto her shoulders. She had wrapped herself in one of the fur blankets from the bed and was keeping herself clothed with its fabric. She bunched it up in her fists, which were placed on top of, Jod assumed, her bare chest.
“Jvodik Kvo Rymtabryk,” she said sensually. Her voice sounded so familiar, but the hazolaet tremendously slowed his already tired thinking. Besides, another fire had been started inside his body that made it dreadfully difficult to sort out who she was. Then she tucked some of her hair behind her ear, letting some light shine on her left eye. It was gray, and Jod knew it saw nothing.
“Feos?” He asked incredulously.
She took a step towards him. “I have been waiting years for this moment. Your father brought Caramon to my father’s stable before I was born, and as I became a woman, I watched you become a man.” Feos took another step closer to him, bringing her cloud of perfume to his nose. It was musky and woodsy, and it drove all sensibilities from his mind. Then he caught another scent of strong whiskey. She relaxed her hand to release the fur, and Jod seized her arms.
“No, no, Feos. Not this. Not now. You have had drink and so have I.”
“You have watched me become a woman. My body burned for yours when you gazed at my breast.”
Jod looked her in the eye, his mind traveling back to when she had worn a tunic that fit her more modestly the year before. His mind and eyes had wandered while her father weighed the silver. She had been leaning over the counter and her eyes saw the path his eyes had taken. 
“You are beautiful, Feos, and my eyes went where they should not have gone.”
“Did you not want me then? Do you not want me now?” She looked up at him, her eyes pleading with him. 
When two fires burn beside each other, how can you prevent the flames of one from consuming the wood of the other? Jod asked himself. That Zaranazyk expression couldn’t have been more apropos.
“Yes, and that’s the problem. I want you when we can have each other without anything affecting a single part of our mind. Neither of us can do that now. I would rather briefly anger you, maybe even much longer than that, than dishonor you for a lifetime. Lie down, Feos. Sleep.” Jod turned her around and gently led her to the bed. She collapsed into the bed and stared up at him in admiration as he threw another blanket over her.
“You are a good man, Jvodik Kvo Rymtabryk. I know you have had other women, probably even many. That usually poisons the water of a man’s spring. I have spent countless nights here, drinking your drink at your brother’s inn. Your family has told me about you. You are a good man and I want to be entwined with a good man. I want you,” she emphasized through slurred speech and drooping eyelids.
“And you are a good woman. Any man would be blessed to be your desire. Sleep well, Feos.” He gracefully lifted some hair away from her forehead and kissed it softly. “May the light of the moon fall softly on you.” Jod watched Feos drift off to sleep before he crept downstairs to the hall, which was considerably quieter than earlier. He crossed over to the locked guest book near the north end of the long counter. One of the several keys on his brass keyring unlocked the guest book, which Jod greatly appreciated. On several occasions, the barmaid working for them at the time would fill reservations on behalf of the owners, and Jod’s room was given to someone else by mistake.
Jod found an empty room on the second floor. His eyes flitted up to the key rack, confirming the presence of corresponding key. He scratched his name into the book and signed it, and then turned around to find the barmaid. Jod spotted her giving a nearby intoxicated man another tankard.
“Miss!” He whispered forcefully, waving his left arm. She hurried to him, asking if he needed anything else.
“Please inform my brother I have booked room 2C. My room was unfortunately already occupied upon my entry.”
Worry spread across her face. “I’m sorry, I thought it w—”
“It wasn’t your fault,” he reassuredly interrupted her. “It was mine.”
She looked at him curiously, and then shook her head. “Of course. I will let Peźvik know.”
Jod thanked her and went back upstairs. He located the room “2C” unlocked it with the key he retrieved downstairs. He entered the room, the water in the air sticking to his face and forging his skin and tunic together. He softly shut and locked the door, yanked off his boots, and fell heavily into his bed. His coin purse and keys uncomfortably pressed into his thigh, causing Jod to flip onto his back. He shoved a heavy blanket of dark brown fur over the bed’s edge and closed his eyes, loosening his grip on his consciousness.

					

Jod woke up from a dead sleep. He listened quietly and heard shouting in the street. Rowdiness at night, especially after a good day of trading, amongst the Zaralahar wasn’t unheard of. He rolled over and curled his body together, preparing to fall back asleep. He then heard a distinct word in Zaranazyk which chilled him to the bone, driving all sleep from his body and filling him with dread: “tyvyzdryxm.” It meant “to kill,” but when it was used to raise the alarm, it meant the Zaralahar were under attack.
Jod remembered the messenger from the night before. He jumped out of bed and pulled his boots on his feet, struggling to remember with his sleep drunk mind where his family slept. Shouts of “Tyvyzdryxm!” filled his ears as he reached for his keys. Just as he was about to unlock the door, his brother opened it. “Jod,” he breathed. Without another word, Peźvik grabbed Jod by the hand like they were children and pulled him down the hallway. 
“Faster!” Peźvik hissed.
As they sprinted down the stairs, screams of agony froze Jod’s blood. “Stockroom!” Peźvik commanded. His older brother shoved tables and chairs out of his way as they ran to the bar counter. They slunk into the stockroom, panting heavily.
“Find the barrel with Alika’s name at the top,” Peźvik said between breaths. “All the barrels are shallow because I had one made with a false bottom to hide illegal goods.” Jod gave Peźvik a look and he smirked. “Spare me the lecture on morals, there’s no time. The barrel is big enough to accommodate a small family. Walk through the wine, hide yourself, and wait. I’ll come back for you if I can.”
Peźvik dashed away before Jod could utter a single word. He examined the barrels and found the one Peźvik described. He opened it and wine sluiced out. Wait, it would be conspicuous if wine was only spilled in front of this barrel alone. With trembling hands, he opened and closed the lids of the other barrels before hiding himself, flooding the shadowy stockroom floor. He returned to the first barrel and entered it, sloshed through the wine, and blindly patted the bottom for a handle. His fingers curled around a handle which he pulled. The false bottom swung open and Jod hurriedly closed himself in it. He covered his ears to deafen the outside screams, praying desperately none of them belonged to his family.
